---
layout: post
title: "Orbs of Curiosity"
date: 2012-05-23 12:00
comments: true
categories: [talisman]
Author: Danny Ngo
---

![Talisman](/images/neftalislogo.jpg)

From the depths of the Ruined Temple, adventurers brought back glowing orbs 
among their numerous treasures. All emitted some color of light from within a 
crevice along the side; some sapphire, some emerald, some a fiery ruby. For a 
time, their purpose remained a curiosity; a toy for the rich, and a study for 
the scholars.

<!-- more -->

According to rumor, a vicious group of demons surrounded a shepherd and his 
flock, roaming within the realm of Tadaria. The shepherd, an old man and 
unready for a fight, was ready to surrender his life when a bright flame leapt 
out from his orb and smote his attackers, one by one. Bewildered, the surviving 
demons fled in terror. The term "Talisman" was coined by the man on that day; 
"a ward against evil".

During that time, the raids against Tadaria were growing in number and 
intensity. At first, the Tadarians were able to repel the roving bands of 
thieves and thugs with ease. However, as word of Tadaria's wealth and treasures 
spread, larger and more organized bands of raiders began assaulting its fair 
walls on a regular basis. Finally, the raiders successfully infiltrated the 
city and brought back tales of the orbs and their supposed powers.

These raiders claimed that the source of the power and riches of the Tadarians 
can be traced back to the enhancements given by those mysterious orbs. This 
revelation created an uproar in all Neflarian societies. The rich want 
talismans to augment their power base, the poor want them for protection, and 
the scholars and mages want to unlock the secret for themselves. Their growing 
demands created a huge and lucrative market for these Talismans. And waves 
after waves of seekers continued to crash against both the mighty doors of 
Tadaria and the Ruined Temple...


## Physical description

Talismans can be described as grey orbs around the size of 2 human fists 
combined. All of them share a common slot on its side. The slot, like the 
Talisman's surface are smooth to the touch. At the end of the slot is some type 
of luminous material that emits a colored light.

## Abilities

Talismans will give players a stat boost while equipped. Talismans will also 
give player additional elemental damage, based on the type of talisman 
equipped; this may be changed by feeding and evolving the Talisman (as 
explained further on.) Some types of talismans perform rare actions in combat 
to aid the player, such as dealing killing blows and or healing the player back 
to full health, or affect the enemy in general. Talismans also keep track of 
affinity towards a player; the longer you use a talisman, the more likely it is 
to help you and the better boost it can provide. The equipped talismans will be 
attuned to a player; this attunement increases as a player goes into battle; 
this also means that if traded, a talisman will have to re-attune to the new 
player.

Talismans have their own level and stats; they grow by consuming gems. Which 
stat is improved depends on the type of gem, while how much is determined by 
the grade of the gem. Different talismans type are affected by gems 
differently; one type may determine that rubies increase its fire elemental 
damage, while another uses rubies to increase its vitality boost. Talismans 
cannot be fed too often, or they will begin to reject gems.

A talisman can only grow so much, however, until it requires the use of a 
special catalyst to move further. Each transformation results in a talisman 
with extra abilities; while a base talisman may simply boost stats and deal 
elemental damage, a third-evolution talisman may heal the player when close to 
death, or help you deal more critical hits. Special catalysts may even be found 
in late zones and in beast hunts that can turn talismans into rare forms.

In the next talisman blog post, we'll talk about what the stat tables might look 
like, and go more in depth with how to level up a talisman (and what that 
means.)


